--- Q&A ITEM ---
question: Cold air is leaking around the edges of my front door even when it is fully closed. The weatherstripping looks torn and compressed flat. How do I replace it?

answer: |
  Tools needed: utility knife or scissors, tape measure, hammer and small finish nails or
  staple gun, flathead screwdriver, replacement door weatherstripping (foam adhesive-backed
  or V-strip, sold by the roll at any hardware store), mild soap and water, dry cloth.

  1. Open the door and remove the old weatherstripping from all three sides of the door
     frame — the top jamb and both side jambs. Adhesive-backed foam strips peel off; pull
     slowly at a low angle to avoid lifting paint or tearing the wood. V-strip (spring
     bronze or plastic) is nailed or stapled — use a flathead screwdriver to pop out
     staples, then pull the strip free.
  2. Clean the door stop channel or frame surface where the new strip will seat. Wipe off
     adhesive residue and dust with a damp cloth and mild soap, then dry completely.
     Adhesive-backed weatherstripping will not bond to a wet or oily surface and will
     peel off within days if the surface is not clean and dry.
  3. Measure each side separately — top jamb, hinge-side jamb, and latch-side jamb.
     Cut the replacement strip about one inch long and trim to exact fit. Slightly long
     is better than slightly short; any gap defeats the seal.
  4. For adhesive-backed foam: peel the backing and press firmly into the door stop
     channel (the narrow ledge the door closes against). Start at a top corner and work
     down the full length in one continuous motion, keeping the strip centered on the stop.
  5. For V-strip (spring bronze or rigid vinyl): orient it so the open face of the V
     faces outside. Nail or staple every four to six inches, flush with the inside edge
     of the door stop, so the door compresses the strip when closed.
  6. Close the door slowly and check for even contact along the full length of each side.
     Test with a lit stick of incense held along the door edge — if smoke wavers, there
     is still a gap. Reposition adhesive strip while still fresh, or add a thin second
     layer of foam for a tighter fit.
  7. Replace the door bottom sweep separately: unscrew the old sweep from the door face,
     align the new sweep so the rubber blade just brushes the threshold without dragging,
     and drive the screws down. The sweep seals the gap at the bottom that frame
     weatherstripping cannot reach.

equipment_problem: Front door leaks cold air around all edges; weatherstripping is torn and compressed flat

tools_required:
  - utility knife or scissors
  - tape measure
  - hammer and small finish nails or staple gun
  - flathead screwdriver
  - replacement weatherstripping (foam adhesive or V-strip, sold by the roll)
  - mild soap and water
  - dry cloth

steps:
  - Remove old weatherstripping from top jamb and both side jambs; pop out any staples
  - Clean door stop surfaces with soap and water; dry completely before applying new strip
  - Measure each side separately; cut replacement strip slightly long and trim to fit
  - Install adhesive foam by pressing firmly into door stop channel from corner to corner
  - Install V-strip with open side facing out, nailed or stapled every 4–6 inches
  - Close door and test seal; use incense smoke to locate remaining gaps and adjust
  - Replace door bottom sweep: align rubber blade just touching threshold and screw down

safety_info: |
  When cutting weatherstripping with a utility knife, always cut away from your body and
  keep fingers clear of the blade path — the strip can slip unexpectedly on smooth surfaces.
  Place a scrap board under the material to provide a stable cutting surface and protect
  the floor. Retract the blade immediately after each cut.

tips:
  - V-strip (spring bronze) outlasts adhesive foam five to ten times over and is worth the
    extra cost on a frequently used exterior door; foam is fine for interior doors or
    low-traffic secondary entrances.
  - If the door still leaks cold air after replacing weatherstripping, check whether the
    door has warped or the hinge screws are loose — a door that does not hang square
    cannot seal evenly regardless of weatherstrip quality.
  - Buying a complete door seal kit (three-sided weatherstrip plus bottom sweep, around
    $15–25) guarantees material compatibility and is usually cheaper than buying each
    component separately.
